# DoctorOperations-Go-Terminal-PostegreSQL
DoctorOperations is a terminal-based application designed for managing hospital operations, specifically focusing on the interactions between patients, doctors, and headdoctors. This app uses the Go language and WebSockets to enable real-time communication between patients and doctors, while interacting with a hospital central database. It uses SQL queries directly in Go for database operations with protection against SQL injection. 
The app will also have a network, built from a central server in Go that connects three types of clients (Patients, Doctors, Head Doctor), moving into networked application architecture. The app will use Gorilla WebSocket library for the server implementation, which will run persistently. All messages are transmitted using JSON over WebSocket connections for persistent, low-latency communication, where each client connect to the server using a WebSocket URL, while also authenticating and sending messages to other clients through the server using WebSocket protocol over TCP. 
The advantages WebSockets offer over TCP are persistent connection, custom JSON message structure and allowing network operations via browser port 8080. The server guarantees accepting WebSocket connections from clients, authenticating and registering clients by role, listening to incoming messages from clients, routing packets to the targeted user, logging or inserting data to PostgreSQL database and handling errors,disconnects and reconnections. WebSocket connections are raw TCP sockets.
The hospital database offers high functionality having a variety of complex entities and relations between them. It contains 15 tables with 3 many-to-many relationships handled by 3 junction tables. 
The hospital system flow is:
-Patients make an appointment to a specified department, following an examination with a doctor.
-Headdoctors, of specified department, are viewing the appointment details of the patient and are assigning doctors for examination.
-Doctors examine the patient in the examination room and assign a number of nurses from the specific department, resulting in an admission or a prescription containing medications.
-Operations will be made on patients by a doctor and nurse group, during the patient admission period.
-Actions inside the hospital system will be logged inside various tables and notes will be taken.
-Normalisation of the database is made, bringing it to the third normal form 3NF, offering data integrity and redundancy elimination.
